# Changelog
All notable changes to this project will be documented in this document.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

### Changed
- Compile against Java 11.
- Upgrade to KotlinPoet `1.8.0`.
- Upgrade to RecyclerView `1.2.0`.
- Upgrade to Hyperion `0.9.32`.
- Upgrade to Arrow `0.13.1`.

## [0.12.1] - 2021-03-28

### Added
- Indication that an option is a supervisor. If an option supervises features it has an eye icon next to it. List of supervised features is available after long pressing a chip.
- Navigation from supervised feature to supervisor.
- Navigation from supervisor to supervised feature.
- Amount of offscreen feature sections in inspector can be controlled with `LaboratoryActivity.Configuration.OffscreenSectionsBehavior`. Default is unlimited.

### Changed
- Upgrade to Kotlin `1.4.32`.
- Upgrade to LifecycleViewmodelKtx `2.3.1`.
- Upgrade to FragmentKtx `1.3.2`.
- Upgrade to Wire `3.7.0`.

## [0.12.0] - 2021-03-21

### Added
- Gradle plugin generates `sourcedBuilder()` extension function for `SourcedFeatureStorage` that returns custom builder with steps for each source. This makes changes to sources compile time safe.
- Show feature's supervisor option in inspector – [#95](https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/issues/95).

### Changed
- Upgrade to Coroutines `1.4.3`.
- Upgrade to AGP `4.1.3`.

### Deprecated
- `sourcedGenerated()` extension function generated by Gradle plugin.

## [0.11.0] - 2021-03-11

### Changed
- Use `proto3` for `FeatureFlags` definition.
- Upgrade to DataStore `1.0.0-alpha08`.
- Upgrade to Kotlin `1.4.31`.
- Upgrade to Wire `3.6.1`.
- Upgrade to FragmentKtx `1.3.1`.

## [0.10.0] - 2021-02-18

### Added
- Parent–child relationship to `Feature`. This relationship is controlled with a `Feature.supervisorOption` property. Whenever supervisor has its option different from this value then the supervised feature flag cannot return any other option than a default one. Option can still be set via `Laboratory` but it will not be exposed as long as a feature flag is not supervised. This relationship is recursive meaning that grandparents control grandchildren indirectly.
- Code generation of supervisor options via Gradle plugin.

### Changed
- Gradle plugin no longer changes implicit package name multiple times. Only last value that was set is applied in configuration.
- Upgrade to DataStore `1.0.0-alpha06`.
- Upgrade to AGP `4.1.2`.
- Upgrade to Kotlin `1.4.30`.
- Upgrade to Wire `3.6.0`.
- Upgrade to Material `1.3.0`.
- Upgrade to FragmentKtx `1.3.0`.
- Upgrade to LifecycleViewmodelKtx `2.3.0`.
- Upgrade to Hyperion `0.9.31`.

### Fixed
- Search icon not animating on Android below SDK 24.

### Deprecated
- `DataStore` custom builder and builder factory methods. Factory method that accepts `DataStore` directly should be used instead.

## [0.9.7] - 2020-12-15

### Changed
- `DeprecationLevel.Hidden` is no longer deprecated. It was a mistake to deprecate it at all since it could work from the start.

## [0.9.6] - 2020-12-15

### Added
- `FeatureFactory` can be now appended to another with plus operator.
- `DefaultOptionFactory` can be now appended to another with plus operator.

### Changed
- Use description as feature flag's KDoc content.
- Upgrade Kotlin to `1.4.21`.

### Deprecated
- Using `DeprecationLevel.Hidden` is temporarily treated as an error until the [compiler issue](https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/issues/62) is fixed.

### Fixed
- Make updates to the in-memory `Laboratory` atomic.

## [0.9.5] - 2020-12-03

### Added
- Builder pattern for `LaboratoryActivity.Configuration` construction.
- Visual representation of deprecated feature flags in the QA module.
- Visual representation of deprecated feature flags can be configured via `LaboratoryActivity.Configuration` builder with `deprecationPhenotypeSelector()` and `deprecationAlignmentSelector()` functions.
- Consumer ProGuard rules to `laboratory-inspector` to keep `@Deprecated` annotation.
- QA module displays clickable hyperlinks from a feature flag description if it contains Markdown formatted links.

### Changed
- Upgrade to DataStore `1.0.0-alpha05`.

### Deprecated
- `LaboratoryActivity.Configuration()` constructor. Use `LaboratoryActivity.Configuration.create()` or `LaboratoryActivity.Configuration.builder()` instead.

### Fixed
- Warning and error level deprecation on generated feature flags is now correctly suppressed.

## [0.9.4] - 2020-11-27

### Added
- Kyrie `0.2.1` to `laboratory-inspector`.
- DynamicAnimation `1.0.0` to `laboratory-inspector`.

### Changed
- Animation of search feature in inspector. It no longer makes ugly visibility transitions.
- Upgrade to Coroutines `1.4.2`.

## [0.9.3] - 2020-11-23

### Added
- Feature flags filtering to the QA module. Features are filtered by their name, options or source options.
- ConstraintLayout `2.0.4` to `laboratory-inspector`.

### Changed
- Inspector tabs are now scrollable instead of fixed.
- Upgrade to Kotlin `1.4.20`.

### Fixed
- Shared preferences based `FeatureStorage` dispatches now changes to feature flag observers when `clear()` method is used. This fixes an issue with the QA module where it did not update the UI after resetting feature flags if shared preferences where used for feature flags persistence.
- Preserve feature flags preview adapter scroll position on configuration changes.
- External feature factories are no longer filtered out when added with the `configure()` function.

## [0.9.2] - 2020-11-18

### Added
- `BlockingLaboratory` class that can read and write feature flags via blocking API.
- `blocking()` function to `Laboratory` class that is an entry point to the blocking API.
- Deprecation of feature flags from the Gradle plugin with `deprecated(message, level)` method. `level` argument is optional and a warning level is used by default.

### Changed
- Upgrade to DataStore `1.0.0-alpha04`.

### Deprecated
- All blocking functions on the `Laboratory` class. `BlockingLaboratory` available via `blocking()` function should be used instead.

## [0.9.1] - 2020-11-12

### Added
- Builder pattern for `Laboratory` construction.
- `DefaultOptionFactory` that can substitute default options for feature flags read by `Laboratory`.
- `clear()` function to `FeatureStorage` and `Laboratory`.

### Changed
- Upgrade to DataStore `1.0.0-alpha03`.

### Deprecated
- `Laboratory(storage)` constructor. Use `Laboratory.create(storage)` or `Laboratory.builder()` instead.

## [0.9.0] - 2020-11-11

### Added
- Groovy DSL for adding feature flags via Gradle plugin. This is equivalent to `feature("SomeFeatureFlag")` function.
    ```groovy
    laboratory {
      SomeFeatureFlag {
        withDefaultOption("Enabled")
        withOption("Disabled")
      }
    }
    ```
- `options` extension to `Class<Feature<T>>` that returns all available feature flag options.
- `defaultOption` extension to `Class<Feature<T>>` that returns a default option of a feature flag.
- `source` extension to `Class<Feature<*>>` that returns a feature flag source if available.
- `description` extension to `Class<Feature<*>>` that returns a feature flag description if available.
- `withOption()` and `withDefaultOption()` to Gradle plugin for adding options to feature flags.
- `defaultOption` property to `Feature` interface.
- `setOption()` and `setOptions()` functions to `Laboratory` and `FeatureStorage`.

### Changed
- `excludeProjects` plugin functions are now called `projectFilter` and the condition is reversed. Previously they removed projects that matched a condition. Now they allow projects that match it.
- `sourcedWith` property on `Feature` is now named `source`.
- Upgrade to Coroutines `1.4.1`.

### Deprecated
- `withValue()` and `withDefaultValue()` functions in Gradle plugin. `withOption()` and `withDefaultOption()` should be used instead.
- `setFeature()` and `setFeatures()` functions. `setOption()` and `setOptions()` should be used instead.

### Removed
- `ProjectFilter` from `laboratory-gradle-plugin` in favour of `java.util.function.Predicate`.
- `configure()` overload which accepts sources factory as a separate argument.
- `isDefaultValue` from `Feature` interface. `defaultOption` should be used instead.

### Fixed
- Moved `generateSourcedFeatureStorage` task to a correct tasks group.

## [0.8.0] - 2020-10-28
### Added
- KDoc documentation.

### Changed
- Renamed `feature`/`features` argument in `setFeature()` and `setFeatures()` methods to `value`/`values` respectively.
- Elevation is no longer an attribute in the `IoMehowLaboratory.Theme` and a regular resource is used instead. This makes sure that when an Activity theme is overridden externally it won't crash for an unknown attribute.
- Flatten Hyperion button to visually match other items.
- Upgrade to Coroutines `1.4.0`.
- Upgrade to Wire `3.5.0`.

### Removed
- `generateFactory` property from `sourcedFeatureStorage()` method in Gradle plugin. It was added to the public API by a mistake and wasn't responsible for anything.
- Wire dependency from the `library-shared-preferences` artifact. It was added by a mistake.
- `BuildConfig` classes from Android library modules.

## [0.7.0] - 2020-10-22
### Changed
- Changelog format follows now [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/) format. Format is applied retroactively to this file.
- R8 rules are now a part of `META-INF` of the `laboratory` artifact.
- `SharedPreferencesFeatureStorage` is now `internal`.
- Gradle plugin no longer has a runtime dependency on Android Gradle Plugin.
- `laboratory-generator` generates source code compatible with the [explicit API mode](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/whatsnew14.html#explicit-api-mode-for-library-authors).
- Set compile SDK to `30`.
- Upgrade to KotlinPoet `1.7.2`.
- Upgrade to Hyperion `0.9.30`.
- Upgrade to DataStore `1.0.0-alpha02`.

## [0.6.2] - 2020-10-12
### Added
- `FeatureStorage` extensions for creation of [`SharedPreferences`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/SharedPreferences) based `FeatureStorage`.
- `FeatureStorage` extensions for creation of [`DataStore`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/datastore) based `FeatureStorage`.
- [Hyperion](https://github.com/willowtreeapps/Hyperion-Android) plugin can be ordered in the debug menu by overriding `io_mehow_laboratory_plugin_id` resource.

### Deprecated
- `SharedPreferenceFeatureStorage` soon will become `internal`.

### Changed
- `DataStoreFeatureStorage` is now `internal`. It is not considered a breaking change as [`DataStore`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/datastore) is in the alpha stage.

## [0.6.1] - 2020-10-12
### Fixed
- [Hyperion](https://github.com/willowtreeapps/Hyperion-Android) plugin layout where button was on the wrong side of the debug menu.

## [0.6.0] - 2020-10-12
### Added
- `Feature` can have now description. It can be used to add more contextual data to feature flags.
- `LaboratoryActivity` observes changes to feature flags instead of loading them every time the screen is opened.
- `LaboratoryActivity` displays feature flag sources next to them and allows users to select a source from a drop down menu.
- Remote feature flag values are displayed in `LaboratoryActivity` if a source is not local.
- When a remote source is used for a feature flag a value cannot be changed from `LaboratoryActivity`.
- `LaboratoryActivity` displays feature flag descriptions if they are present.
- `LaboratoryActivity` can reset feature flag values to their default state from an item in the action bar.
- `Laboratory.experimentIs()` and `Laboratory.experimentIsBlocking()` functions that allow to check if a feature flag has particular value.
- ViewPager2 `1.0.0` dependency to `laboratory-inspector`.
- RecyclerView `1.1.0` dependency to `laboratory-inspector`.

### Changed
- `LaboratoryActivity` requires now a `Laboratory` instance for initialization. This `Laboratory` should share `FeatureStorage` with instances of `Laboratory` used in the application.

## [0.5.0] - 2020-10-08
### Changed
- `fallback` nomenclature to `default`. This affects Gradle plugin `withFallbackValue()` and `withFallbackSources()` functions as well as `isFallbackValue` property on the `Feature` interface.

## [0.4.0] - 2020-10-08
### Changed
- Name of the generated sourced `FeatureStorage` extension function is now `sourcedGenerated()` in order to align it with the generated feature factory extension function name.

## [0.3.0] - 2020-10-08
### Added
- Feature flags can have multiple sources. Source is also a feature flag and is optional. If no source is available it is assumed that only a local source is controlled.
- `FeatureStorage` that connects feature flags with their sources. It is available via `FeatureStorage.sourced()` extension function. Feature flag sources are uniquely identified only by their value names.
- Feature flag sources can be set from the Gradle plugin with `withSource("Name")` and `withFallbackSource("Name")` functions in `feature()` blocks. Any source that has the name "Local" (or a variant of it) is filtered out.
- Gradle plugin has a new `sourcedStorage()` function. It is responsible for generating a customized `FeatureStorage` that is aware of all available feature flag sources.
- Gradle plugin has a new `featureSourceFactory()` function. It works similarly to `featureFactory()` function with a difference that it collects only feature flag sources.
- `LaboratoryActivity` is now configurable with the `configure() function`.
- `LaboratoryActivity` can display different sets of feature flags on separate tabs.
- FragmentKtx `1.2.5` dependency to `laboratory-inspector`.
- ViewModelKtx `2.2.0` dependency to `laboratory-inspector`.

### Changed
- `LaboratoryActivity.initialize()` function is renamed to `configure()`.
- Gradle plugin `factory()` function is renamed to `featureFactory()`.

## [0.2.1] - 2020-10-02
### Added
- `Laboratory` exposes a blocking way of reading and writing feature flags. It requires an [opt-in](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/opt-in-requirements.html) `BlockingIoCall` annotation.

### Changed
- `laboratory-android` artifact is now `laboratory-shared-preferences artifact`.
- `laboratory-shared-preferences` artifact (old `laboratory-android)` is no longer automatically applied by Gradle plugin in Android modules.
- Upgrade to Kotlin `1.4.10`.
- Upgrade to CoreKtx `1.3.2`.
- Upgrade to Wire `3.4.0`.
- Upgrade to KotlinPoet `1.6.0`.

## [0.2.0] - 2020-09-05
### Added
- `Laboratory.observe()` function to observe feature flag changes via [`Flow`](https://kotlin.github.io/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-core/kotlinx.coroutines.flow/-flow/).
- Support for [`DataStore`](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/architecture/datastore) with the `laboratory-date-store` artifact.
- `Laboratory` and `FeatureStorage` returns a boolean information whether writes are successful.
- `Feature` interface that is used to define feature flags.
- Wire `3.2.2` dependency to `laboratory-data-store`.

### Changed
- Kotlin standard library is now part of the public API.
- `Laboratory` and `FeatureStorage` expose their API via `suspend` functions.
- Gradle plugin requires exactly one feature flag value to be added with `withFallbackValue("Name")` function.
- Upgrade to Kotlin `1.4.0`.
- Upgrade to Material `1.2.1`.
- Upgrade to Hyperion `0.9.29`.


### Removed
- `@Feature` annotation. Feature flags should implement the `Feature` interface.

## [0.1.0] - 2020-08-03

- Initial release.

[Unreleased]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/compare/0.12.1...HEAD
[0.12.1]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.12.1
[0.12.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.12.0
[0.11.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.11.0
[0.10.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.10.0
[0.9.7]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.7
[0.9.6]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.6
[0.9.5]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.5
[0.9.4]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.4
[0.9.3]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.3
[0.9.2]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.2
[0.9.1]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.1
[0.9.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.9.0
[0.8.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.8.0
[0.7.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.7.0
[0.6.2]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.6.2
[0.6.1]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.6.1
[0.6.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.6.0
[0.5.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.5.0
[0.4.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.4.0
[0.3.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.3.0
[0.2.1]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.2.1
[0.2.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.2.0
[0.1.0]: https://github.com/MiSikora/laboratory/releases/tag/0.1.0
